docs(api): new_labware.rst revisions for Flex (#13096)
OpenTrons/opentrons-api: api/docs/v2/new_labware.rst

Labware
#######

Labware are the durable or consumable items that you work with, reuse, or discard while running a protocol on a Flex or OT-2. Items such as pipette tips, well plates, tubes, and reservoirs are all examples of labware. This section provides a brief overview of default labware, custom labware, and how to use basic labware API methods when creating a protocol for your robot.

*************
Labware Types
*************

Default Labware
===============
.. Description almost verbatim from Flex user manual.

> Default labware is everything listed in the `Opentrons Labware Library <https://labware.opentrons.com/>`_. When used in a protocol, your Flex or OT-2 knows how to work with default labware. However, you must first inform the API about the labware you will place on the robot’s deck. Search the library when you’re looking for the API load names of the labware you want to use. You can copy the load names from the library and pass them to the ``load_labware`` method in your protocol.

Reviewer: Would be good to link the method here, but keep the clean, short name.
```suggestion
Default labware is everything listed in the `Opentrons Labware Library <https://labware.opentrons.com/>`_. When used in a protocol, your Flex or OT-2 knows how to work with default labware. However, you must first inform the API about the labware you will place on the robot’s deck. Search the library when you’re looking for the API load names of the labware you want to use. You can copy the load names from the library and pass them to the :py:meth:`~.ProtocolContext.load_labware` method in your protocol.
```

Author: Committing change.

Custom Labware
==============

> Custom labware is labware that is not listed the Labware Library. If your protocol needs something that's not in the library, you can create it with the `Opentrons Labware Creator <https://labware.opentrons.com/create/>`_. However, before using the Labware Creator, you should take a moment to review the support article, `Creating Custom Labware Definitions <https://support.opentrons.com/s/article/Creating-Custom-Labware-Definitions>`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Custom labware is labware that is not listed the Labware Library. If your protocol needs something that's not in the library, you can create it with the `Opentrons Labware Creator <https://labware.opentrons.com/create/>`_. However, before using the Labware Creator, you should take a moment to review the support article `Creating Custom Labware Definitions <https://support.opentrons.com/s/article/Creating-Custom-Labware-Definitions>`_.
```
not an appositive

.. list-table::
    :widths: 20 40 45
    :header-rows: 1

    * - Labware type
      - Labware name
      - API load name
    * - Well plate
      - `Corning 96 Well Plate 360 µL Flat <https://labware.opentrons.com/corning_96_wellplate_360ul_flat/>`_
      - ``corning_96_wellplate_360ul_flat``
    * - Flex tip rack
      - `Opentrons Flex 96 Tips 200 µL <https://shop.opentrons.com/opentrons-flex-tips-200-l/>`_
      - ``opentrons_flex_96_tiprack_200ul``
    * - OT-2 tip rack
      - `Opentrons 96 Tip Rack 300 µL <https://labware.opentrons.com/opentrons_96_tiprack_300ul>`_
      - ``opentrons_96_tiprack_300ul``

Similar to the code sample in :ref:`overview-section-v2`, here's how you use the :py:meth:`.ProtocolContext.load_labware` method to load labware on either Flex or OT-2. 

.. code-block:: python

    #Flex
    tiprack = protocol.load_labware('opentrons_flex_96_tiprack_200ul', 'D1')
    plate = protocol.load_labware('corning_96_wellplate_360ul_flat', 'D2')

.. code-block:: python

    #OT-2
    tiprack = protocol.load_labware('opentrons_96_tiprack_300ul', '1')
    plate = protocol.load_labware('corning_96_wellplate_360ul_flat', '2')

> When the ``load_labware`` method loads labware into your protocol, it returns a :py:class:`opentrons.protocol_api.labware.Labware` object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the ``load_labware`` method loads labware into your protocol, it returns a :py:class:`~opentrons.protocol_api.labware.Labware` object.
```
tilde trick to shorten this cross-reference

.. _labware-label:

.. Tip::
    
    The ``load_labware`` method includes an optional ``label`` argument. You can use it to identify labware with a descriptive name. If used, the label value is displayed in the Opentrons App. For example::
        
        tiprack = protocol.load_labware(
            load_name= 'corning_96_wellplate_360ul_flat',

>             location= 'D1',  # Flex deck slot

Reviewer: can remove comment here, since slots are cross-compatible

            label= 'any-name-you-want')

Loading Labware on Adapters
===========================

> The the previous section demonstrates loading labware directly into a deck slot. But, the ``load_labware`` method also includes the ``adapter`` argument. This parameter lets you stack labware on top of a compatible adapter and work with them as a single unit in a protocol. For example, you can use an adapter as a simple labware holding device or when you need to use a labware/adapter combination with a module. The ability to combine labware with adapters adds functionality and flexibility to your robot and protocols. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The previous section demonstrates loading labware directly into a deck slot. But, the ``load_labware`` method also includes the ``adapter`` argument. This parameter lets you stack labware on top of a compatible adapter and work with them as a single unit in a protocol. For example, you can use an adapter as a simple labware holding device or when you need to use a labware/adapter combination with a module. The ability to combine labware with adapters adds functionality and flexibility to your robot and protocols. 
```
☝️ typo fix

additionally, i think this section could shift in approach. loading modules in examples starts to overcomplicate things — especially since we can do this all directly on the deck now. i'd propose instead of…
- On the Deck
- On a Module
…to have subsections for…
- Using `load_labware`
- Using `load_adapter`

we definitely need to document `load_adapter()` and this seems like the place. load an adapter straight on the deck, then add labware on top. then cross reference to Modules page for more complex examples that do that on top of a module.

On the Deck
-------
This example uses ``adapter`` to combine a 96-well plate with a flat adapter and loads them into a deck slot::
    
    corning_plate = protocol.load_labware (
        load_name= 'corning_96_wellplate_360ul_flat',

>         location= "D1", #Flex deck slot

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        location= "D1",
```

        adapter= "opentrons_universal_flat_adapter")

> 

Reviewer: include versionadded here too (the parameter is new)

Author: Added

Labware
#######

> Labware are the consumable items that you work with, reuse, or discard while running a protocol on a Flex or OT-2. Items such as pipette tips, well plates, tubes, and reservoirs are all examples of labware. This section provides a brief overview of default labware, custom labware, and how to use basic labware API methods to create a protocol for your robot.

Reviewer: Since we're using the language from the manual here, I think "durable or consumable" is appropriate. The `Labware` class includes things like aluminum adapters, which you definitely shouldn't throw out!

Reviewer: Maybe also "when creating a protocol for your robot." Saying "to create" makes it sound like those are the only tools you need.

Author: Thanks, Ed. I had "durable" in here from the manual, but (as you noticed) removed it. Was probably over-thinking it to stay focused on the disposable items. Putting it back in. Will change text in 2nd sentence too.

*************
Labware Types
*************

Default Labware
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
.. Description almost verbatim from Flex user manual.

Default labware is everything listed in the `Opentrons Labware Library <https://labware.opentrons.com/>`_. When used in a protocol, your Flex or OT-2 knows how to work with default labware. However, you must first inform the API about the labware you will place on the robot’s deck. Search the library when you’re looking for the API load names of the labware you want to use. You can copy the load names from the library and pass them to the ``load_labware`` method in your protocol.

Custom Labware
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Custom labware is labware that is not listed the Labware Library. If your protocol needs something that's not in the library, you can create it with the `Opentrons Labware Creator <https://labware.opentrons.com/create/>`_. However, before using the Labware Creator, you should take a moment to review the support article, `Creating Custom Labware Definitions <https://support.opentrons.com/s/article/Creating-Custom-Labware-Definitions>`_ .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Custom labware is labware that is not listed the Labware Library. If your protocol needs something that's not in the library, you can create it with the `Opentrons Labware Creator <https://labware.opentrons.com/create/>`_. However, before using the Labware Creator, you should take a moment to review the support article, `Creating Custom Labware Definitions <https://support.opentrons.com/s/article/Creating-Custom-Labware-Definitions>`_.
```
stray space

Author: oops!

After you've created your labware, save it as a ``.json`` file and add it to the Opentrons App. See `Using Labware in Your Protocols <https://support.opentrons.com/s/article/Using-labware-in-your-protocols>`_ for instructions. 

If other people need to use your custom labware definition, they must also add it to their Opentrons App.

***************
Loading Labware
***************

Throughout this section, we'll use the labware listed in the following table.

.. list-table::
    :widths: 20 40 45
    :header-rows: 1

    * - Labware type
      - Labware name
      - API load name
    * - Well plate
      - `Corning 96 Well Plate 360 µL Flat <https://labware.opentrons.com/corning_96_wellplate_360ul_flat/>`_
      - ``corning_96_wellplate_360ul_flat``

>     * - Flex tiprack

Reviewer: "tip rack", with a space, in prose

Author: Change "tiprack" to "tip rack", except in code.

      - `Opentrons Flex 96 Tips 200 µL <https://shop.opentrons.com/opentrons-flex-tips-200-l/>`_
      - ``opentrons_flex_96_tiprack_200ul``
    * - OT-2 tiprack
      - `Opentrons 96 Tip Rack 300 µL <https://labware.opentrons.com/opentrons_96_tiprack_300ul>`_
      - ``opentrons_96_tiprack_300ul``

> From the example in the :ref:`overview-section-v2`, we used the :py:meth:`.ProtocolContext.load_labware` method to load Flex and OT-2 labware as shown below. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Following the example in the :ref:`overview-section-v2`, here is how to the :py:meth:`.ProtocolContext.load_labware` method to load labware on either Flex or OT-2. 
```
Something like this, mostly to avoid the noun-noun compound "Flex and OT-2 labware"

Reviewer: oops, it would help if i didn't suggest typos 🤦‍♂️ 
"here is how to **use** the … method"

.. code-block:: python

    #Flex
    tiprack = protocol.load_labware('opentrons_flex_96_tiprack_200ul', 'D1')
    plate = protocol.load_labware('corning_96_wellplate_360ul_flat', 'D2')

.. code-block:: python

    #OT-2
    tiprack = protocol.load_labware('opentrons_96_tiprack_300ul', '1')
    plate = protocol.load_labware('corning_96_wellplate_360ul_flat', '2')

> After the ``load_labware`` method loads labware into your protocol, it returns a :py:class:`opentrons.protocol_api.labware.Labware` object.

Reviewer: "When" the method loads labware? I think this is considered to be simultaneous, or nearly so. But maybe check with a Python guru…

Author: An easy enough change to make, but does it really make a difference to an average user? There are 2 actions here:

1. Method loads labware
2. API returns an object

That this happens almost immediately isn't relevant to the purpose of the text and intended audience, though it might matter to an engineer. Visions of angels dancing on the head of a pin swim before my eyes. Will change to "when" nonetheless.

> .. Recommend a call-out instead of a section (H2, H3) for "label." It's more a "pro tip" nice-to-have rather than

Reviewer: Yes, this is fine, the bit of content is so short. Maybe we should give it a label so it can be cross-referenced easily.

Author: added a label. Here's the whole call-out:

```
.. _labware-label:

.. Tip::
    
    The ``load_labware`` method includes an optional ``label`` argument. You can use it to identify labware with a descriptive name. If used, the label value is displayed in the Opentrons App. For example::
        
        tiprack = protocol.load_labware(
            load_name= 'corning_96_wellplate_360ul_flat',
            location= 'D1',  # Flex deck slot
            label= 'any-name-you-want')
```

.. image:: ../img/well_iteration/Well_Iteration.png

.. code-block:: python
    :substitutions:

    '''

>     Examples in this section expect the following

Reviewer: Too much context removed…the code blocks are floating free below the image. How about:

```
The code in this section assumes that ``plate`` is a 24-well plate. For example:
<block loading the corning plate into D1>
```
then skip the OT-2 block that's only 1 character different.

Author: Fixed. Assuming "then skip the OT-2 block" means remove it. Makes sense. Revised note at top tells readers the samples use Flex deck slots and links to the deck slot doc. Will resolve and commit.

> +-------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

Reviewer: now might be a good opportunity to refactor this into a 3-column list-table.

Author: Trying a table. The `code formatting` takes a lot of space. Text is going to break across a line.

2 columns might be fine. 2nd column: definition, line break and then example.

Here's the revised 3 col table

```
.. list-table::
   :widths: 20 30 50
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Method
     - Returns
     - Example
   * - :py:meth:`.Labware.wells`
     - List of all wells.
     - ``[labware:A1, labware:B1, labware:C1...]``
   * - :py:meth:`.Labware.rows`
     - List of a list ordered by row.
     - ``[[labware:A1, labware:A2...], [labware:B1, labware:B2..]]``
   * - :py:meth:`.Labware.columns`
     - List of a list ordered by column.
     - ``[[labware:A1, labware:B1..], [labware:A2, labware:B2..]]``
   * - :py:meth:`.Labware.wells_by_name`
     - Dictionary with well names as keys.
     - ``{'A1': labware:A1, 'B1': labware:B1}``
   * - :py:meth:`.Labware.rows_by_name`
     - Dictionary with row names as keys.
     - ``{'A': [labware:A1, labware:A2..], 'B': [labware:B1, labware:B2]}``
   * - :py:meth:`.Labware.columns_by_name`
     - Dictionary with column names as keys.
     - ``{'1': [labware:A1, labware:B1..], '2': [labware:A2, labware:B2..]}``
   ```

Author: Will resolve pending commit.

The functions in the :ref:`new-well-access` section above return a single :py:class:`.Well` object or a larger object representing many wells. :py:class:`.Well` objects have attributes that provide information about their physical shape, such as the depth or diameter, as specified in their corresponding labware definition. These properties can be used for different applications, such as calculating the volume of a well or a :ref:`position-relative-labware`.

.. note::

    In the code samples below, the ``load_labware`` method shows a Flex deck slot location (``D1``). If you have an OT-2, replace ``D1`` with ``1``. Although our Python API knows how to translate Flex and OT-2 deck locations, it's a good practice to use the deck location coordinates that match your robot model. See :ref:`deck-slots` for more information.

> 

Reviewer: we could move (or copy) this further up the page, wherever we do this first.

Author: Moved to top, under the intro, and shortened.

```
.. note::

Code snippets use alphanumeric Flex deck slot locations (e.g. ``D1``, ``D2``, etc.). 
If you have an OT-2, replace the Flex deck slot coordinate with its OT-2 equivalent.
For example, Flex slot D1 corresponds to slot 1 on an OT-2. See :ref:`deck-slots` for more information.
```

Author: Will resolve pending commit.
